---
title: Examples of non-inclusive language
layout: default
parent: Core principles of inclusive language
nav_order: 1
---

# Examples of non-inclusive language

Software development documentation provides a rich source of real-world language usage in technical contexts. To illustrate how inclusive language principles can be applied in practice, this section presents examples drawn from GitHub repositories. GitHub was chosen as a source due to its vast and diverse collection of documentation from various projects and communities worldwide.

As a central hub for software development and collaboration, GitHub hosts millions of repositories containing readme files, comments, and other forms of documentation. This wealth of content reflects the language practices of a broad spectrum of developers and organizations, making it an excellent resource for identifying both inclusive and non-inclusive language patterns.The examples provided here are not meant to single out GitHub or suggest that it is uniquely prone to non-inclusive language. Rather, they serve as practical illustrations of how language choices in technical writing can impact inclusivity, and how more inclusive alternatives can be implemented.

For each example of non-inclusive language identified, a more inclusive alternative will be suggested, demonstrating how small changes in terminology can contribute to a more welcoming and respectful development environment.

## Master/slave

While often used to describe a controlling element and a dependent element, these terms recall historical contexts of oppression.

❌ **What was found on GitHub:**

> Guarantee of data consistency among cluster nodes: replacing loss-less semi-sync between MySQL **master** and MySQL **slaves** with Paxos, PhxSQL ensures zero-loss binlogs between **master and slaves** and supports linearizable consistency, which is as strong as that of Zookeeper.

✅ **A more inclusive option:**

> Guarantee of data consistency among cluster nodes: replacing loss-less semi-sync between MySQL **primary** and MySQL **replicas** with Paxos, PhxSQL ensures zero-loss binlogs between **primary and replicas** and supports linearizable consistency, which is as strong as that of Zookeeper.

## Whitelist/blacklist

While often used to describe the functionality of blocking or allowing certain items, these terms suggest negative things should be associated with 'black' and positive with 'white,' which can carry racial implications.

❌ **What was found on GitHub:**

> In directory levels you can find preprocessed raw IP lists based on number of **blacklist** occurrences (e.g. levels/3.txt holds IP addresses that can be found on 3 or more **blacklists**).

✅ **A more inclusive option:**

> In directory levels, you can find preprocessed raw IP lists based on the number of **blocklist** occurrences (e.g., levels/3.txt holds IP addresses that can be found on 3 or more **blocklists**).

## Sanity check

While often used to describe a quick mental overview, this term can reinforce the notion that individuals with mental health challenges are inferior or flawed.

❌ **What was found on GitHub:**

> modelChecker is a python plug-in written for Autodesk Maya to **sanity check** digital polygon models. It is unopinionated, provides concise reporting, and lets you select your error nodes easily.

✅ **A more inclusive option:**

> modelChecker is a python plug-in written for Autodesk Maya to **validation check** digital polygon models. It is unopinionated, provides concise reporting, and lets you select your error nodes easily.

## Crippled

While often used to describe software with limited functionality, this term is an ableist word that tends to be used with a negative connotation describing the disability.

❌ **What was found on GitHub:**

> A sad truth is that most decompilers out there are **crippled**. Many aren't able to decompile trivial constructs, others can't decompile more advanced, those which seemingly can deal with them, are **crippled** by supporting only the boring architectures and OSes.

✅ **A more inclusive option:**

> The unfortunate truth is that many decompilers are **limited in functionality**. Some cannot handle simple constructs, while others struggle with advanced ones. Decompilers that manage these complexities often **only support a narrow range** of architectures and operating systems.

✅✅ **Or you can go a step further and use plain language principles to improve the text even more:**

> Many decompilers **aren't very functional**. Some fail with simple tasks, while others can't manage complex ones. Even those that can handle these tasks often **work only with a limited set** of computer architectures and operating systems.
