---
title: Real life examples of implementation
layout: default
parent: Core principles of inclusive language
nav_order: 2
---
# Real life examples of implementation

## Apple

Apple has made significant strides in promoting inclusive language within the tech industry. The company has revamped its coding terminology to remove phrases with historically racist connotations, such as replacing "blacklist" and "whitelist" with "deny list" and "allow list," respectively. Furthermore, Apple has substituted "master" and "slave" with "primary" and "secondary" to describe device relationships, effectively removing terms that hint at subjugation or control. Their guide now explicitly calls it "Inclusive Language" instead of "Fair Language," emphasizing their commitment to inclusivity.

## Salesforce

Salesforce has implemented a comprehensive strategy to integrate inclusive language across all corporate sectors, not just coding. By establishing an advisory board that includes corporate leaders, employees, and members of Employee Resource Groups, Salesforce ensures diverse perspectives are considered. This Inclusive Product Language team systematically evaluates language decisions, guided by principles such as Representation and Historical Context, to recommend more inclusive alternatives.

## Microsoft

Microsoft has actively integrated inclusive language into their communication methods. Their comprehensive style guide includes a bias-free section emphasizing gender-neutral and person-first language. Microsoft also integrates inclusive tools within Microsoft Word, which suggest edits to ensure communications remain neutral and respectful, avoiding stereotypes in product naming. They reinforce these principles through employee education programs, encompassing training and practical resources.

## Google

Google has been proactive in fostering inclusivity across various aspects of its operations. Beyond their 'Write inclusive documentation' guide, the company continually enhances accessibility features in its products. For example, they have improved Google Meet's live captioning and developed the ChromeVox screen reader for better web navigation accessibility.
