---
title: For organisations
layout: default
parent: Implementation guide
nav_order: 2
---
# For organisations

## Audit

Perform a comprehensive audit of all existing content, identifying areas that include non-inclusive language. Use tools like Grammarly or Textio to assist in spotting problematic language.

## Training programs

Develop and conduct regular training sessions focused on inclusive language principles. These sessions can include real-life scenarios to practice language changes and understand their impact.

Utilize interactive workshops that provide role-playing exercises or discussions to engage participants in learning.

> The [Additional Resources](https://majaborgosz.github.io/inclusivelanguage/docs/4.0_additionalresources.html) section provides a selection of helpful tools to enhance your inclusive language skills. It includes curated courses, guides, communities, and tools suitable for individual writers and organizations aiming to implement or improve inclusive communication.

## Inclusive language guidelines

Create or update a style guide that includes a section dedicated to inclusive language. This should outline specific dos and don'ts tailored to your organization's context.

## Feedback mechanisms

Establish channels such as focus groups or surveys to get feedback from diverse stakeholders regarding the inclusivity of your communications.

Encourage an open-door policy where anyone can raise concerns or suggest changes about language use.

## Regular reviews and updates

Implement a schedule for regular review and updating of materials to ensure they remain inclusive as societal norms and language evolve.

